cwbtools 0.1.2.9003
===================

* 

cwbtools 0.1.2.9002
===================

* An new function `suggest_corpus_dir()` suggests a corpus directory where the 
data directories reside based on the registry directory.
* `use_corpus_registry_envvar()`, `cwb_corpus_dir_create()`, `cwb_registry_dir_create()`,
`cwb_directories()`, `cwb_registry_dir()`, `cwb_corpus_dir()` 
* Implemented functionality to download and install corpus into system registry.
* New Roxygen documentation of R6 used for `CorpusData` class.



cwbtools 0.1.2.9001
===================

* Added a (preliminary) vignette that explains how to add a sentence annotation to an indexed corpus.


cwbtools 0.1.2
==============

## BUG FIXES

  * Trying to remove the entire temporary session directory at the end of the package 
    vignettes caused problems to build the package documentation. A more limited 
    approach to clean up temporary files after build the vignettes will omit 
    this problem.


cwbtools 0.1.1
===============

## MINOR IMPROVEMENTS

  * The `pkg_add_corpus()` function will now create the cwb directories (registry and data directory) if necessary. Previously, these directories were required to exist before moving a corpus into a package, making it necessary to put dummy files into packages to keep R CMD build from issuing warnings and git from dropping these directories. Creating the directories on demand is a precondition for a CRAN release of data packages (#11).

## BUG FIXES

  * In the upcoming R version 4.0, the `matrix` class will inherit from class `array`. The new package version now takes into account that `length(class(matrix(1:4,2,2)))` will return the value 2.
 
## DOCUMENTATION FIXES

  * The NEWS file now follows the styleguide such that `pkgdown::build_site()` will generate a proper changelog page.




cwbtools 0.1.0
==============
  * updated vignette so that annex explains installation of CoreNLP v3.9.2 (2018-10-05)
  * New functions `s_atttribute_get_regions()` and `s_attribute_get_values()`.
  * In `corpus_install()`, using `download.file()` replaces `curl::curl_download()` for Windows because curl apparently is not able to process target filenames that include special characters.
  * For Windows machines, there is a check for non-ASCII characters in the file path. If TRUE, a path generated by a call to `shortPathName()` is used.
  * In the vignette, the registry is reset after creating the new corpora, to make the new corpus available.
  * A (preliminary) `decode()`-method will turn a `partition` into an `Annotation` object from the NLP package.
  * A new `conll_get_regions()`-function will turn an CoNLL-style annotated token stream into a table with regions that can be encoded using `s_attribute_encode()`.
  * A new function `s_attribute_merge()` will merge two `data.table` objects defining s-attributes, checking for overlaps.

cwbtools 0.0.11
===============

  * New functions `p_attribute_recode()`, `s_attribute_recode()`, and supplementary `s_attributed_files()`, and `corpus_recode()`.
  * Any call to `tempdir()` is now wrapped as `normalizePath(tempdir(), winslash = "/")` to avoid Problems on Windows, when different file separators may be used.
  * When calling `file.path()`, the argument `fsep` is "/" to prevent confusion of file seperators.
  * A new function `corpus_copy()` is available to create a copy a corpus.
  * Working example for `s_attribute_encode`().
  * A call to `cl_delete_corpus()` from RcppCWB is added to `s_attribute_encode()`, so that newly added s-attributes can be used without restarting the R session.
  * The `corpus_copy()` was defined (and documented) twice in a confusing manner. This is cleaned up.
  * Calls to `installed.packages()` were replaced to meet an advice of the CRAN team in the submission process.
  * 


cwbtools 0.0.10
===============

  * Missing documentation written for fields of class CorpusData.
  * New fields 'sentences' and 'named_entities' added to class CorpusData, as a basis
  for encoding annotation of sentences and named entities.


cwbtools 0.0.9
==============

  * issue with parsing path correctly in registry_file_path when path is in inverted commas solved (adjusted regex)
  * issue with ALTREP vector for corpus positions resolved
  * layout of progress bars consistently using pbapply package
  * sanity checks for s_attribute_encode, ensure that region_matrix is integer matrix
  * s_attribute_encode when called with method = "R" will now add s_attribute to registry
  * s_attribute_encode will add structural attribute to registry when using R implementation, too
  * corpus_as_tarball-function added
  * install_corpus able to install from tarball
  * progress option for `CorpusData$import_xml()`-method
  * Minimal rework of progress bar in `CorpusData$add_corpus_positions()` (helper function .fn)
  * Three dots (...) are passed into `download.file()` by `install_corpus()`, if argument tarball is specified. This is a precondition for passing arguments to download password-protected corpora.


cwbtools 0.0.8
==============

  * major bug removed when writing regions to disk (s_attribute_encode) with R
  * when creating/removing files in p_attribute_encode, only basenames of filenames are outputted
  * for CorpusData$encode(), an already existing corpus will be removed


cwbtools 0.0.7
==============

  * bug removed in function pkg_create_cwb_dirs causing error when a directory already exists
  * new vignette 'europarl': sample workflow for putting indexed corpus into package
  * for $tokenize()-method of CorpusData: stricter requirement that chunkdata is data.table
  * progress bar for $tokenize()-method, when tokenizers package is used
  * tilde expansion for paths that are passed into p_attribute_encode
  * stri_detect_regex replacing grepl to speed things up in p_attribute_encode
  * awful workaround for coping with latin1 removed in p_attribute_encode
  * stip_punct = FALSE for $tokenize() method of CorpusData
  * purging the data for the CWB has been moved away from p_attribute_encode to a $purge()-method
    of CorpusData (to be performed on chunkdata) as a matter of efficiency.
  * continuous removal of objects and garbage collection in p_attribute_encode to be
    as parsimonious with memory as possible
  * checking of encoding in p_attribute_encode has been moved to $check_encoding() method in 
    CorpusData-class to keep necessity to copy around vectors (potentially exceeding memory)
    to a minimum.
  * additional parameters passed into tokenizers::tokenize_words by ...
  * writing hex for content of s_attributes to cope with encoding issues
  * values coerced to character


cwbtools 0.0.6
==============

  * DataPackage class turned into pkg_*-functions
  * first version that passes all tests


cwbtools 0.0.5
==============

  * undocumented


cwbtools 0.0.4
==============

  * askYesNo function has been replaced by readlines(), to ensure compatibility with R versions < 3.5